Adds SQL reference content 5th batch (#2654)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/sql-reference/window-functions/sql-row-number.md

---
id: row-number
title: SQL ROW_NUMBER
description: The ROW_NUMBER function returns the unique row number of a row in an ordered group or dataset.
slug: /sql-reference/row-number
---

<head>
    <title>Working with the SQL ROW_NUMBER</title>
</head>

In this page, let’s go deep into the ROW_NUMBER function and talk about what it is, how to use it, and why it’s important in analytics engineering work.

The ROW_NUMBER window function is an effective way to create a ranked column or filter a query based on rankings. More specifically, the ROW_NUMBER function returns the *unique* row number of a row in an ordered group or dataset. 

> Unlike the RANK and DENSE_RANK functions, ROW_NUMBER is non-deterministic, meaning that a *unique* number is assigned arbitrarily for rows with duplicate values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike the [RANK](/sql-reference/rank) and DENSE_RANK functions, ROW_NUMBER is non-deterministic, meaning that a *unique* number is assigned arbitrarily for rows with duplicate values.
```

## How to use the ROW_NUMBER function

The ROW_NUMBER function has a pretty simple syntax, with an optional partition field and support for ordering customization:

`row_number() over ([partition by <field(s)>] order by field(s) [asc | desc])`

Some notes on this function’s syntax:

> - The `partition by` field is optional; if you want to get the row numbers of your entire dataset by certain fields (compared to partitioning *and grabbing row number* within a dataset), you would simply omit the `partition by` from the function call (see the example below for this).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `partition by` field is optional; if you want to get the row numbers of your entire dataset (compared to grabbing row number within a group of rows in your dataset), you would simply omit the `partition by` from the function call (see the example below for this).
```

- By default, the ordering of a ROW_NUMBER function is set to ascending. To explicitly make the resulting order descending, you’ll need to pass in `desc` to the `order by` part of the function.

Let’s take a look at a practical example using the ROW_NUMBER function below.

### ROW_NUMBER function example

```sql
select
    customer_id,
    order_id,
    order_date,

>     row_number() over (partition by customer_id order by order_date) as rnk

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    row_number() over (partition by customer_id order by order_date) as row_n
```

from {{ ref('orders') }}
order by 1
```

This simple query using the [Jaffle Shop’s](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop) `orders` table will return the unique row number per customer by their `order_date`:

> | customer_id | order_id | order_date | rnk |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| customer_id | order_id | order_date | row_n |
```

|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| 1 | 1 | 2018-01-01 | 1 |
| 1 | 37 | 2018-02-10 | 2 |
| 2 | 8 | 2018-01-11 | 1 |
| 3 | 2 | 2018-01-02 | 1 |
| 3 | 24 | 2018-01-27 | 2 |
| 3 | 69 | 2018-03-11 | 3 |

> Because ROW_NUMBER is non-deterministic, orders per customer that have the same `order_date` would have unique `rnk` values (unlike if you used the RANK or DENSE_RANK functions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because ROW_NUMBER is non-deterministic, orders per customer that have the same `order_date` would have unique `row_n` values (unlike if you used the RANK or DENSE_RANK functions).
```

## ROW_NUMBER syntax in Snowflake, Databricks, BigQuery, and Redshift

Most, if not all, modern data warehouses support ROW_NUMBER and other similar ranking functions; the syntax is also the same across them. Use the table below to read more on the documentation for the ROW_NUMBER function in your data warehouse.

| Data warehouse | ROW_NUMBER support? |
|:---:|:---:|
| [Snowflake](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/functions/row_number.html) | ✅ |
| [Databricks](https://docs.databricks.com/sql/language-manual/functions/row_number.html) | ✅ |
| [Amazon Redshift](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/r_WF_ROW_NUMBER.html) | ✅ |
| [Google BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/standard-sql/numbering_functions#row_number) | ✅ |

## ROW_NUMBER function use cases

We most commonly see the ROW_NUMBER function used in data work to:

- In [SELECT statements](/sql-reference/select) to add explicit and unique row numbers in a group of data or across an entire table

> - Paired with QUALIFY statement, filter CTEs, queries, or models to capture one unique row per specified partition with the ROW_NUMBER function. This is particularly useful when you need to remove duplicate rows from a dataset (but use this wisely!).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Paired with QUALIFY statement, filter <Term id="cte">CTEs</Term>, queries, or models to capture one unique row per specified partition with the ROW_NUMBER function. This is particularly useful when you need to remove duplicate rows from a dataset (but use this wisely!).
```
